---
layout: post
title: "Hello World!"
date: 2018-12-18 23:49:00
image: '/assets/img/'
description: 'Welcome to my blog!'
tags:
- Meta
categories:
- Meta
---

# Hello World!

I've finally decided to make a technical blog.  Maybe I can become a "real programmer" now that I have a space to post my two cents about anything tech related.  Now that I have been doing iOS for 3+ years and surpassed the Junior Level Engineering role, I hope to share my experiences so someone out there may save themselves from banging their head on the keyboard as much as I have.  Since I work with High School Youth pretty often either at weekend SAT tutoring or Robotics mentoring, I'll try to keep this blog accessible so anyone curious can learn something I am trying to teach!

The MVP of my software education before my professional work has to be StackOverflow.  Since working full time, it is actually my senior developer mentors who walk me through all the nuanced steps of software that brings me to the next level in my career.  An additional thank you to all the bloggers out there who write tutorials to get my projects up and running!  (Shoutout to Willian Justen for open sourcing his Jekyll template for this blog.) To pay it forward, I want to start small and hope I can reach out to even one person who is stuck or needs help in their coding career.  Below is a well known quote by Isaac Newton.

> If I have seen further than others, it is by standing upon the shoulders of giants. - Isaac Newton

Maybe I can become one of those giants someday - or if anything very short stepstool because I've lost all hope of becoming physically taller.
